# COLLEGE50
## Video Demo: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zD1_An2AY_o>
## Introduction:
Welcome to **COLLEGE50**, a program which allows the students as well as the faculty of an institution (named **COLLEGE50** too, in this case), to access a centralised hub, where they can effortlessly access as well as share information. Whether you're a student looking to stay updated on notices, educating yourself about the college's annual schedule, and looking to join the various committies your institution has to offer, or a faculty member seeking to post notices about important events, or registering your name to be displayed in the list of the faculty the college has to offer, **COLLEGE50** provides an intuitive and user-friendly interface to meet all your academic and administrative needs. **COLLEGE50** aims to be the base for a connected, informed, and vibrant college community.
## Registration:
When the program is first executed, the user is greeted with "**COLLEGE50**" in a large font, following which they are prompted to enter either 1,2 or 3 allowing them to register as student, register as faculty or login respectively.\
**NOTE:** Be it faculty or student, the user is requested beforehand to remember their *AUTO GENERATED REGISTRATION NUMBER*, which is essential to later login with the account they will be creating now.\
**CASE 1:** If the user enters "1", then they are redirected to the *STUDENT REGISTRATION* Page. Here the students can enter their name, email address and set a password (which they are required to enter twice for safety purposes), and successfully register themselves in **COLLEGE50**. Their information gets stored in a csv file named *students.csv*, allowing for easy acess when they want to perform actions such as logging in.\
**CASE 2:** If the user enters "2", then they are redirected to the *FACULTY REGISTRATION* Page. This page may seem similar to the previous case till the person accessing the program enters the password twice. After this, for security purposes, the program aims to confirm that the person accessing the program is really a faculty member. For this, the user is then prompted to enter, within 5 tries, one of the *10 FACULTY VERIFICATION CODES*, failing which the faculty registration is cancelled. In this case, we will assume that the faculty have been informed about the codes beforehand by means of either personal notices or a staff meeting. This security is important because the registrations done here will later be displayed when the user chooses to *VIEW FACULTY*. After a valid code is entered, the now verified faculty member is prompted to enter the subject they teach, then saving the entered information in the form of a list in *faculty.csv* (in csv format), hence concluding the registration.
## Logging In:
This could be referred to as **CASE 3** of the above paragraph. If the user enters "3", they are prompted to enter their auto generated registration number, followed by their email address and password, both of which they were allowed to choose during the registration process. After successfully logging in to their accounts, they are once again greeted with "**COLLEGE50**" in a large font, followed by a statement specifying the account they have logged in with. Following this, the user is prompted to enter a number between 1 and 6 (inclusive), with each choice serving its own purpose.
## Home Page:
Once the user completes the registration/login process, they are greeted with the home page screen, which as described above, prompts the user to enter a number between 1 and 6, with each number allowing the user perform a different action, as given below:
#### 1. View Notices:
Entering "1" on the home page allows the user to view notices that have been previously submitted by either students or faculty members. These notices include the Notice title, event, date, time and venue, formatted to be displayed in simple English hence making things easier for the users. *Notices are conveniently displayed in newest to oldest order.*
#### 2. Add Notices:
Entering "2" on the home page allows the user to add a notice to be viewed by other users. The user is prompted to enter the desired notice title, event, date, time and venue, made easy by implementing a convenient UI. The details is then stored in the form of a list in *notices.txt*. The user's name is also appended at the end of the list to be displayed with their notice.
#### 3. Committees:
On entering "3" on the home page, the user is greeted with the word "COMMITTIES" in a large font. Then the user is given a list and brief description of all the committies the college has to offer, as well as details on where to register for the same.
#### 4. View Faculty:
Entering "4" on the home page brings the user to a whole page which displays the name of all the *registered* faculty members, as well as the subjects they teach. The information is displayed in table format to make it more user-friendly.
#### 5. View Schedule:
On entering "5" on the home screen, the user is shown the current academic schedule, which is general all the students studying in that college. This includes important dates, semester sessions as well as vacation dates.
#### 5. About Us:
Finally, entering "6" on the home screen brings the user to the *About Us* page of COLLEGE50, which informs them about the legacy of the college, the opening and closing timings of the facilities provided, as well as contact information for more questions, if the user has any.
## Other Noticeable Features:
**1.** Coloured text is clearly used a lot in **COLLEGE50**. This is to make the user experience more convenient, making it easier to differentiate errors, instructions and redirections.\
**2.** The use of regular expressions makes it easy for the users to revise their mistakes before being registered successfully (such as invalid email format and symbols in names). Also while logging in, if the entered details are not found, the user is simply reprompted to enter them, rather than starting the whole program all over again. This makes everything much more convenient for the user.\
**3.** The Ctrl+D key combination is used to *return to the previous page*. This saves the user the hassle of restarting the program because of a misinput, and they can just go back and reinput.
## Conclusion
In conclusion, **COLLEGE50** stands as a pivotal tool in fostering a well-informed and interconnected college community. By ensuring ease of access, **COLLEGE50** allows for everyone to be engaged and up-to-date with the latest campus activities and academic timelines. It stands to create a more efficient educational environment, and enhancing the educational experience for everyone involved.
